---
layout: post
title:  "200-fier and Regular Expressions"
date:   2014-12-31
categories: project, javascript
---

I've just finished working on this tool, which I call "200-fier", using Javascript.  The purpose of this tool is too easily break a long text into chunks whose lengths are 200 characters or less. The 200-fier could really help me with my work! :)

I was already starting to write if statements and for loops.. and I thought, there must be an easier more efficient way to do this.. and there certainly is! Thanks google and stackoverflow!

Okay. So I found [this answer][1] on stackoverflow which uses regular expressions.

This is the code that provided the answer I needed:

<pre>
	str = "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog!"
	result = str.replace(/.{10}\S*\s+/g, "$&@").split(/\s+@/)
</pre>

Regular expressions can look like gibberish at times, so let me break it down (for my future reference!):
  - .{10} means 10 occurrences of of any non-newline character
  - \S* means zero or more non-white space characters
  - \s+ means one or more white space characters.
  - $& means the result of our pattern matching. [More info on this here][2]. With $&@, we're just adding @ to what we found.

I still had to include my loops and if statements, because just updating the number of occurrences in the code above could give me strings with lengths of greater than 200 characters, which I do not want.

It's been fun working on this project. I'm excited to use it at work! Hope my colleagues will find it useful too :)

Here's the [link to this project][3] if you want to check it out.

[1]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/16246031/how-do-i-split-a-string-at-a-space-after-a-certain-number-of-characters-in-javas
[2]: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ie/3k9c4a32%28v=vs.94%29.aspx
[3]: http://fayea.github.io/200-fier


